Mexican Lucky the Giant Rabbit
--------------------------------

Mexican Lucky (or Conejo Suerte de Mexicana in Spanish/Mexican language) is a mythical character in a Mexican folk tale told in both Spanish and American-English language. Depicted as a giant rabbit, big enough for a full grown man to be thrown from while trying to ride the creature it is said that anyone who tames the beast and manages to ride a full circuit of the village without falling off will be imparted with magical powers of fertility and be able to take his pick of any girl in the village to make his wife.

Although the tale has fallen out of fashion amongst modern school children it is often referenced by adults in modern American slang when a man may say “I am up on mexican lucky” which is a fun way of saying I am hoping to achieve success with the ladies tonight, as if the speaker has tamed the creature and is attempting to ride a full circuit of the village in hope of a reward.  

The plot of the story

Various versions of the story exist but the most common version describes how the main character, Xavier (or Cheechee in American language versions), is a very unlucky man who's land will not bear fruit and his well has no water so all the women in the village refuse to marry him. He sells his hat and boots to buy a long rope and water for his horse so he can ride into the desert at night. Bare-footed, he is able to sneak up on Conejo Suerte de Mexicana (Mexican Lucky) and tie a rope around his ears. By using the rope as a harness he rides lucky around the village, his hind legs kicking Xavier's neighbours fire making beautiful sparks fly into the air. The noise wakes up one of the girls in the village called Claudia who looks out the window, sees Xavier riding the creator surrounded by thousands of tiny glowing embers from the fire and immediately falls in love. They get married, the well fills with water and food grows.

Modern Changes
------------------------------

The most recent versions of the story has removed the section where the rabbit kicks the fires because some educational staff consider it irresponsible to suggest such dangerous behaviour around hot embers. In modern versions the rabbit knocks into pillows and quilts making feathers fly into the air but this change was condemned by the American Asthma Foundation http://www.americanasthmafoundation.org/  as equally irresponsible as feathers can cause allergic reactions if breathed. 

Origins
------------------------------

True origins is unknown but the first recorded reference 

Modern references to the story can be found in in “Mexican-American Folklore” (American Folklore Series) ISBN-10: 0874830591 ISBN-13: 978-0874830590 a paperback book published in Dec 13 2005

